Riders impress in Hong Kong International Track Cup series

KUALA LUMPUR: The national squad's overall performance at the Hong Kong International Track Cup series which concluded yesterday is a positive sign ahead of the Asian Track Cycling Championships (ACC) in Nilai (June 14-19).

Malaysia claimed a total of eight gold across the junior and senior events in Hong Kong, with Azizulhasni Awang undoubtedly the star of the show at the Hong Kong Velodrome.

The former world keirin champion claimed four gold in total - two individual sprint and two keirin - winning every single men's elite event he had competed in relatively comfortably.
He has made a remarkable comeback since undergoing open heart surgery in April last year to correct a coronary artery anomaly that he had suffered from since birth.
The 35-year-old admitted that competing in four events over three days in Hong Kong was physically challenging but was pleased with the outcome.


"I am grateful to end my campaign here with another gold through the men's individual sprint," said Azizulhasni yesterday.
"Overall, I have won four gold and, of course, I am quite satisfied with my performance here. Congratulations to my teammate Fadhil Zonis who took the sprint bronze and our young rider Amber Yong (Ann Tung) who won three gold in the women's junior events."

Fadhil, who has had more success in the keirin and 1km time trial previously, did well to finish third in the men's individual sprint (Track Cup II).

Youngster Akmal Nazimi Jusena, 19, also claimed a surprise bronze in the keirin (Track Cup II). Shah Firdaus Sahrom, however, suffered a heavy crash in the same race. Shah had earlier claimed bronze in the individual sprint (Track Cup I).

Malaysian riders showed encouraging progress in the women's elite and junior categories in Hong Kong.

Nurul Izzah Izzati Mohd Asri, 19, who has only been in the national elite squad for just over a year, won gold and bronze in the women's individual sprint events.

Amber was in dominant form in the women's junior events and clinched a hat-trick of gold (two keirin, one sprint). The 17-year-old is a promising talent for the future.

Malaysian riders will face tougher opponents at the ACC next month as the continental competition will offer valuable qualifying points for next year's Paris Olympics.

China are expected to send a large contingent to the National Velodrome in Nilai.

