Shuttler Letshanaa gets pep talk from world No.2 Se Young

KUALA LUMPUR: K. Letshanaa may still have a long way to go, but a quick chat with world No. 2 An Se Young at the Sudirman Cup in China last month has inspired the Malaysian women's singles shuttler to aim for the stars.

Letshanaa, who was roped into the national squad for a second time earlier this year, was a member of the Malaysian team that reached the semi-finals of the world mixed team championship.

The 20-year-old, once touted to be the country's next women's singles star, won a point for Malaysia in the group stages against Australia but lost against Se Young in the semi-finals. Malaysia would end up losing the tie to South Korea 3-1.
Speaking to the press for the first time since the mixed team event, Letshanaa said: "Playing in the Sudirman Cup this year is an experience I will cherish for the rest of my life.
"We had such a great team, and I am so glad to have played a part in it.


"Having the chance to play against Se Young and then talking to her during the tournament has inspired me and given me the confidence to be a top player in the future.
"Se Young told me that I am a good player and gave me some tips to better my game. She said I could go far if I worked on my front-court playing.

"Her coach, Sung Ji Hyun was also a former great player. She spoke to me too."

Letshanaa, ranked No 67 in the world, acknowledged that she should not rush to achieve certain targets but has to remain patient.

"I really look up to coach Wong Choong Hann for always being there and guiding me.

"In fact, he was my sparring partner during the Sudirman Cup. During matches, he would sit beside me and ask me to analyse other top players.

"Internally, there are targets, but there is no rush for me to achieve them. I need to trust the process and take things one step at a time," added Letshanaa, who lost narrowly 19-21, 21-18, 21-19 to India's Ashmita Chaliha in the second round of the Maldives International Challenge.

On what she intends to achieve this year, Letshanaa, who first joined the national team in 2020 as a junior shuttler, said: "I have my targets and goals, but I also want to be realistic.

"If I can play my game and produce good results, making the top 50 would not be impossible."

Letshanaa, who hails from Selangor, will compete at the Mongolia International Challenge later this month.

At the moment, the former national junior champion is focusing on body conditioning and building up her lower body strength.




