Can Malaysian pros beat semi-pro Solomon Islands?

KUALA LUMPUR: If winning a football match is all about having professional players, then Malaysia should beat the Solomon Islands hands down in tomorrow's friendly at the Sultan Mizan Zainal Abidin Stadium.

Consider this. The players in the Malaysian team are all pros while Solomon Islands have only one pro in Raphael Lea'i.

Sounds like an easy job for Harimau Malaya. But nothing could be further from the truth. The semi-pro Pacific islanders (World No 134) are ranked higher than Malaysia (138).
Solomon Islands' Spanish coach Felipe Vega-Arango pointed out that his side's higher world ranking than Malaysia is not 'accurate' as Malaysia play in a tougher Asian region compared to Solomon Islands who play in Oceania.
"I have done my homework, I know how many citizens Malaysia has, and how many professional teams.


"I know how many minutes, cups, goals, how many assists. I know who the best (Malaysian) players are, the most valuable players.
"But all this knowledge is useless because when the team is on the field, it's completely different," said Vega-Arango a pre-match press conference today.

"Malaysian football is fully professional, and we have only one pro player.

"I know it will be extremely tough. I have been watching Malaysian matches, and I know it's going to be a high-paced game.

"We are not used to the 9pm kick-off, we need to adapt fast," said Vega-Arango whose Solomon side are playing in Malaysia for the first time ever.

"Everybody is here for the Fifa ranking points. My expectation of the match is to be competitive against Malaysia.

"We are here to do a good job, this is a good opportunity for the players and team to show that football in the Solomon Islands is improving," he added.

Solomon Islands skipper Joses Nawo said he has reminded his men to not think about the world rankings of the two teams.

The 35-year-old midfielder said: "We need to be wary of some of the Malaysian players who can be a threat to us."

The first-time visitors look confident and enthusiastic. It would not be wise of the Malaysian team to take Solomon Islands lightly.

