Nurturing love for sports in children

CHILDREN gain a lot from sports involvement beyond physical skills or fitness, as they learn to enjoy themselves, make new friends, be a team member and improve their self-esteem.

Children are now attending coaching clinics during school holidays, which is important for a child’s overall growth, health and builds character.
In line with this, chocolate malt beverage brand Milo held a four-day Milo Champions Clinic: Coach Finder at Sunway Pyramid, Bandar Sunway.

Nestle (Malaysia) Berhad Milo Business Unit sports marketing manager Lim Kerwin, consumer marketing manager Andrew Yoon and celebrity singer Shah Indrawan Ismail launched the event.
Lim said the community programme aimed to nurture a love for sports and exercise in children from a young age.
“We are proud to be an advocate of grassroots sports development, firmly believing that sports is essential in fostering a healthy and active lifestyle.
“We believe getting kids involved in sports at a young age is crucial as it instils values that are not just useful on the field, but also in life,” he said.

Lim said Milo Champions Clinic: Coach Finder offered a platform for parents’ easy access to qualified coaches in the country, where they can sign their children up for sports classes.

“Our initiative is a platform for young children to develop their passion for sports and hone their technical skills,” he said.

“It is the starting point to inspire them to pursue their dreams, reach new heights of excellence and become champions in their chosen fields.”

Lim said the programme was open to children of all skill levels, as they believed that everyone should have access to quality sports education and training.
“Our team of experienced coaches and trainers nationwide are dedicated to providing a safe, supportive and fun learning environment where children can grow and excel in their chosen sports,” he said.

“Sports nurtures us with values that are essential and beneficial in life, such as perseverance, determination, tenacity, discipline and teamwork.”

By instilling these values in children, Lim said they would be equipped with the necessary skills to face any challenges or obstacles that life may throw at them and gain a competitive edge to achieve their dreams, and ultimately success.

“We are excited to be part of the lives of these young children and witness their growth.

”Our aim is to establish a comprehensive sports ecosystem that encompasses initiatives and programmes to promote sports participation and foster holistic development of young people,” said Lim.






