Fadhil bent on bagging elusive ACC gold

KUALA LUMPUR: National track rider Fadhil Zonis is determined to land the Asian Champions jersey at the Asian Track Cycling Championships (ACC) which begins at National Velodrome in Nilai tomorrow.

Fadhil, who is the former Asian record holder in the men's 1 kilometre time trial (sea level), has twice won the ACC silver medal in the discipline in 2020 and 2022.

He is hoping to land the elusive gold on home soil this week.
"I keep getting second (place) in this event but hopefully this time I can win the Asian Champions jersey," said Fadhil recently.
"I am competing at home this time so there will definitely be added motivation to win. The fans will be cheering for us so I hope to repay their support with a win.


"This year, however, the competition will be tougher as all countries are building up their performances for the Paris Olympics (next year) and will also be looking to collect qualifying points here.
"For the 1km time trial, I believe Japan and China will be the main threats. Japan currently hold the record in the event while China have also done some pretty quick times.

"Having said that, I can't afford to take anyone lightly. Riders from India and Kazakhstan can also be dangerous when they are in form."

Japan's Yuta Obara currently holds the Asian record of 59.796s, he is also the defending champion in the event.

Fadhil will also be competing in the men's team sprint event alongside youngsters Ridwan Sahrom and Umar Hasbullah.

"I am confident with their strength and current form we can do well. I am hoping to finish on the podium with them," he added.

Former world keirin champion Azizulhasni Awang and Shah Firdaus Sahrom will only be competing in the men's individual sprint and keirin events this time.

Azizulhasni was forced to miss last year's ACC in New Delhi as he was still recovering after undergoing open heart surgery (April) to correct a coronary artery anomaly.

The 35-year-old has amassed 10 ACC gold throughout his career and has made it clear he is looking to win at least one more gold before he retires.

Azizulhasni has indicated that he will retire from competitive cycling after the Paris Olympics.

The Dungun-born rider is in fine form after sweeping four gold medals at the Hong Kong International Track Cup a fortnight ago.

Shah suffered a heavy crash in Hong Kong which wrote-off his WX-R Vorteq bike and knocked the wind out of him. He has since recovered and will also be expected to challenge for the medals in Nilai.

Malaysia also has a fair chance of finishing on the podium in the women's events through Anis Amira Rosidi, Aliana Azizan and the exciting Izzah Izzati Asri, who was just promoted to the senior squad last year.

Izzah, 20, unexpectedly won the women's 500m time trial gold last year but is more likely to be a threat in the keirin this time.

The trio will also compete in the team sprint event in which they are aiming for a medal.

